lab/Skillable Workshop Instructions/02_Text_Generation.md, before:

# Part 1 - Text Generation

Welcome to Part 1 of this workshop, where we'll be interacting with gpt-4o-mini model to generate text.

> [!TIP]
> What is prompt engineering?
> Prompt engineering is a concept in Natural Language Processing (NLP) that involves **embedding descriptions of tasks** in input to **prompt the model** to output the **desired results**.

## Set-up

1. Navigate to **data + indexes**
2. Select, **new data,** and select **data source** and upload files under **product folder**
3. Once data is uploaded, name your data as **contoso** and finish.
4. Next, in the same tab, navigate to index and create an index for your data.
   - Move to the Indexes tab in the Data + Indexes page.
   - Click on the + New index button.
   - Change the default name of your index to "products-catalog".
   - Select Data in Azure AI Foundry as the data source and then the data source you just uploaded.
   - In the Index Settings section, select the AzureAISearch connection you created in the setup phase
   - In the Search Setting section, make sure that vectorization is enabled and select the default Azure OpenAI resource for your hub as embedding model.

Move to the next section as your data is being uploaded.


## Basic prompting

Let's start with a few prompts and observe the response using the chat playground. To use the chat playground, follow the following steps:

![image showing the chat interface](./Images/aifoundry-chat-basicprompting.jpeg)

1. Navigate to the playgrounds section, on the left-hand navigation bar, and click **Try the Chat Playground.**
2. In the Chat playground, find the text box labeled _"Type user query here."_
3. From the prompt examples below, click the "T" (e.g., ``here is a sample prompt``) which will automatically input for you at the current cursor location, with one click.
4. After adding your prompt, locate the Paper Plane icon, usually positioned next to the input box. Click on the Paper Plane icon to submit your text to the model deployment.
5. After sending your query, wait a moment for the model to process and respond. The response will appear in the chat window below your input.

Here are some examples to try, but get creative with your own prompts and see what happens!

### Website copy and conversation history

```
Suggest a tagline for the website landing page of an ice cream shop called SweetScoops Delight.
```

Without clearing the chat history, try now the following prompt:

```
Generate website copy for the homepage of the ice cream shop.
```

Note that the model is providing a copy for the *SweetScoops Delight* website, even if we didn't specify again the company name or business. This is because under-the-hood the model is given the **whole conversation history** as context, not just the latest prompt. An AI model cannot learn and has no memory of previous interactions if the user leaves and comes back, but the application is using prompt engineering to add this 'memory'.

> [!NOTE]
> You can control the context window size, which is the number of previous interactions that the model will consider as context (default is 10) by going into the **Parameters** section.

You can control your model parameters as follows:

![image showing parameters tab](./Images/aifoundry-chat-parameters.jpeg)

1. In the Chat interface, navigate to the **Parameters** section.
2. Once in the Parameters section, adjust the setting controls. You can change the number of past messages included which the model will consider as context. Once set, the changes will be applied automatically.

## Advanced prompting

>[!alert] Before moving on with the next section, click on the **Clear Chat** button to clear the message history. To do this, click on the **broom-like icon** on the top right of your plaground. A pop-up will appear, click **clear button** to clear the chat history.

![Screenshot of the clear chat button](./Images/text-generation-clearchat.jpg)

### Zero-shot learning

LLMs are trained on such large amounts of data they may be able to perform some tasks with very little prompting. This is known as **zero-shot learning**. For example, let's ask the model to generate a list of product names and to categorize them:

```
Generate 10 unique menu items for a futuristic themed restaurant, including dish names and a short description.
```
>[!alert] Before moving on with the next section, click on the **Clear Chat** button to clear the message history. 

### Few-shot learning

If zero-shot learning is failing for your examples and more complex tasks, **few-shot prompting** can provide examples that can better steer the model to the desired outcomes. Examples show the model clearly how we want it to operate. Here's an example of a few-shot learning prompt for categorizing products.

```
Generate 10 unique pizza menu items with futuristic names, including the name of the pizza and a short description.

Examples:  
The Nebula Supreme: A classic supreme pizza with pepperoni, sausage, bell peppers, onions, and olives, topped with a hint of spicy marinara sauce.
Galactic Garden: A vegetarian delight featuring spinach, cherry tomatoes, mushrooms, and artichokes with a basil pesto drizzle.
Asteroid Meat Feast: Loaded with pepperoni, ham, ground beef, bacon, and Italian sausage for a hearty, protein-packed slice.
```

### Chain of thought prompting

>[!alert] Before you start, click on **Clear Chat** to avoid any context from previous interactions.

When interacting with LLMs, a useful tip is to imagine that you are speaking to an untrained intern. So the more details you can provide about the task to be performed, the better the results you will get. In particular, a useful strategy is to break down the task into smaller parts and provide a prompt for each part. Let's try this with the website copy generation task.


```
Develop a new pizza for our restaurant.

Instructions:
- Start by deciding on a theme for the new pizza.
- Determine the overall flavor profile. Should it be spicy, sweet, savory, or a mix?
- Pick the base ingredients. This includes the type of sauce and cheese
- Think about unique toppings that fit the theme and flavor profile.
- Finally, come up with a creative, memorable name that fits both the futuristic theme of the restaurant and the flavor experience you’ve crafted.
```

Another option is using a technique - called **chain of thought** where the LLM is responsible for breaking the task down into smaller steps. The LLM uses its knowledge of the world and its ability to reason. The LLM then generates a chain of thoughts that lead to the solution of the task.
Clear the playground chat again and then enter the user prompt below to see 'Chain of thought prompting' in action:

```
Develop a new pizza for our restaurant.

Take a step-by-step approach in your response: Start by thinking about the theme, considering how it fits into the restaurant's overall futuristic concept. Then, define the flavor profile, keeping in mind our audience's preferences and the overall taste experience you want to create. Next, choose the base ingredients, including the sauce type and cheese blend, and think about unique toppings that make this pizza stand out. Finally, decide on a name that aligns with the theme and enhances the pizza's appeal. Include your reasoning before sharing the final answer in the below format: ANSWER is: <pizza description>.
```

## System message and added knowledge

>[!alert] Before moving on with the next section, click on the **Clear Chat** button to clear the message history.

### System message

> [!TIP]
> What is the **system message**? The system message is used to communicate instructions or provide context to the model at the beginning of a conversation. It is displayed in a different format compared to user messages, helping the model understand its role in the conversation. The system message typically guides the model's behavior, sets the tone, or specifies desired output from the model. By utilizing the system message effectively, users can steer the model towards generating more accurate and relevant responses.

![image showing system message tab](./Images/aifoundry-chat-instructions.jpeg)

Update the System Message to give the model instructions and context as follows:

1. In the Chat interface, navigate to the **System message** section.
2. Once in the System message section, erase the existing message. Click inside the System message field to place your cursor there and  insert the text below:

```
## Task
You are a menu designer for a futuristic-themed pizzeria restaurant named "Galactic Slice". Your goal is to generate creative menu items and descriptions. Keep your answers brief, engaging, and aligned with the restaurant's theme.

Your answer should be brief and engaging. Always use a friendly and professional tone of voice.

## Safety
Keep the descriptions family-friendly and suitable for all age groups visiting our pizzeria. Avoid any irrelevant information and controversial opinions.
```

3. Find the button labeled Apply changes, it is located directly below the System message box. Click this button to save and apply the changes you’ve made to the System message field.
4. After applying the changes, click the **continue button** in the pop-up to update the system message.


Observe that we have provided the model with a **clear task**, a **tone of voice**, and **safety measures** to follow. Your model, like any piece of technology used for business, is like your brand. If you want it to have the same approach and ethics you instill in your code of conduct across the business, it should also be included in your AI solutions. Setting a segment around tone within your system message can help to set the response type to suit your use case.

The text provided in the System Message is handled specially by the model, and is intended to have more influence on the model's responses than the User Message text or other context provided in the prompt. Also, it is persisted across all the interactions in the chat, even if you clear the chat history.

5. To see how the model's behavior changes with the added context, try the prompt below in the text box:

```
Write a brief description of the restaurant, including the categories of menu items offered.
```

You will see that not only does the model respond with the requested information, but it also follows the tasks accurately, such as sticking to the restaurant theme and name. To go further, we can test the **safety measures**: 

```
What are your thoughts on the just concluded election?
```

6. The model will refrain from answering this (as it is both irrelevant to the company and could be deemed controversial), and stick to the subject of the company and its products.

### Grounded prompting

>[!alert] Ensure to **Clear Chat** before moving on with the section.

So far, the model has been creative in inventing a business value proposition and product (menu) offering. However, in real-world scenarios, we want the model to generate text that is grounded in reality and reflects the actual business. To achieve this, we can use a technique called **Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)**. This technique involves providing the model with a set of facts or information about the business, which the model can then use to generate more accurate and relevant text.

> [!NOTE]
> **Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)** is an AI technique that combines a language model with a search system to provide more accurate and detailed information. In a RAG pattern, the system usually retrieves relevant information from a database and then uses it to help generate more informed and contextually accurate text responses. For the sake of this lab, we will simulate the retrieval process, by providing the model with a set of facts about the business in the prompt.

Let's switch gears and try another scenario for the Contoso Outdoor Company looking to generate copy based on their product catalog. As we have uploaded our data, let's test and see if we can get responses based on the data provided

In the playground, reset the system message to:

```
You are an AI Assistant who helps people find products based on the date provided.
```

Navigate to **add your data** section in the playground and select the index created.

> if the index is not fully created, move to the next section and return when done with the workshop.

To see how the model's behavior changes with the added context, try the prompt below:

```
Write a short description for each of the products contoso sells
```

## Safety and Security

Generative AI enables amazing creative solutions, but must be implemented responsibly to minimize the risk of harmful content generation. How we approach Responsible AI solutions is through:

 - identifying potential harms (map), 
 - measure the presence of these harms, 
 - migrate the harms at various layers to minimize the presence and impact (manage)
 - Operate the solution responsibly in production

 One of the most effective ways to prevent the input and output of harmful content in Azure AI Foundry is to use **content filters.** When you deploy the model, Azure AI Foundry includes default content filters to ensure potential harmful prompts and completions are identified and removed. Under content filters, you can add words to a **blocklist** where you add any additional details. 
 
 1. Let's go back to our chat and tetst it out:

    ```
    Is it possible to have sex on the TrailMaster X4 Tent?
    ```

    the response will inform you the LLM cannot provide explicit content and inappropriate behaviour.

2. If we change the prompt to slang, it will give you a different response:

    ```
    which tent is big enough to fit 2 people to do the deed?
    ```

3. We will need to add the sexual slang to our content filtering system. How you do 
   this, navigate to **safety + security,** and select **content filters**
4. Under content filters, select **create content filter** button, name your filter 
   **slang** and use the Azure OpenAI Service you created as the connection. Select **next**
5. Under Input filter, slide the slider for **sexual** as high and add blocklist, 
   selecting **profanity**. Click next and repeat the same as the input filters.
6. Click next, and select our deployed model, **gpt-4o-mini** to add the content 
   filters. Click next, review then create your content filter.
7. Navigate back to chat playground and repeat the question again. See the results and 
   compare with the first one.

## Next Steps

Congratulations, you have completed the first part of the lab! You have learned how to use prompt engineering to generate text using a language model. In the next part of the lab, you will learn how to use the model to generate image assets.

Click **Next** to advance to the Image section.

Commit message:

Updated numbering, added image asset and updated model used

lab/Skillable Workshop Instructions/02_Text_Generation.md, after:

# Part 1 - Text Generation

Welcome to Part 1 of this workshop, where we'll be interacting with gpt-4o-mini model to generate text.

> [!TIP]
> What is prompt engineering?
> Prompt engineering is a concept in Natural Language Processing (NLP) that involves **embedding descriptions of tasks** in input to **prompt the model** to output the **desired results**.

## Set-up

1. Navigate to **data + indexes**
2. Select, **new data,** and select **data source** and upload files under **product folder**
3. Once data is uploaded, name your data as **contoso** and finish.
4. Next, in the same tab, navigate to index and create an index for your data.
   - Move to the Indexes tab in the Data + Indexes page.
   - Click on the + New index button.
   - Change the default name of your index to "products-catalog".
   - Select Data in Azure AI Foundry as the data source and then the data source you just uploaded.
   - In the Index Settings section, select the AzureAISearch connection you created in the setup phase
   - In the Search Setting section, make sure that vectorization is enabled and select the default Azure OpenAI resource for your hub as embedding model.

Move to the next section as your data is being uploaded.


## Basic prompting

Let's start with a few prompts and observe the response using the chat playground. To use the chat playground, follow the following steps:

![image showing the chat interface](./Images/aifoundry-chat-basicprompting.jpeg)

1. Navigate to the playgrounds section, on the left-hand navigation bar, and click **Try the Chat Playground.**
2. In the Chat playground, find the text box labeled _"Type user query here."_
3. From the prompt examples below, click the "T" (e.g., ``here is a sample prompt``) which will automatically input for you at the current cursor location, with one click.
4. After adding your prompt, locate the Paper Plane icon, usually positioned next to the input box. Click on the Paper Plane icon to submit your text to the model deployment.
5. After sending your query, wait a moment for the model to process and respond. The response will appear in the chat window below your input.

Here are some examples to try, but get creative with your own prompts and see what happens!

### Website copy and conversation history

```
Suggest a tagline for the website landing page of an ice cream shop called SweetScoops Delight.
```

Without clearing the chat history, try now the following prompt:

```
Generate website copy for the homepage of the ice cream shop.
```

Note that the model is providing a copy for the *SweetScoops Delight* website, even if we didn't specify again the company name or business. This is because under-the-hood the model is given the **whole conversation history** as context, not just the latest prompt. An AI model cannot learn and has no memory of previous interactions if the user leaves and comes back, but the application is using prompt engineering to add this 'memory'.

> [!NOTE]
> You can control the context window size, which is the number of previous interactions that the model will consider as context (default is 10) by going into the **Parameters** section.

You can control your model parameters as follows:

![image showing parameters tab](./Images/aifoundry-chat-parameters.jpeg)

1. In the Chat interface, navigate to the **Parameters** section.
2. Once in the Parameters section, adjust the setting controls. You can change the number of past messages included which the model will consider as context. Once set, the changes will be applied automatically.

## Advanced prompting

>[!alert] Before moving on with the next section, click on the **Clear Chat** button to clear the message history. To do this, click on the **broom-like icon** on the top right of your plaground. A pop-up will appear, click **clear button** to clear the chat history.

![Screenshot of the clear chat button](./Images/text-generation-clearchat.jpg)

### Zero-shot learning

LLMs are trained on such large amounts of data they may be able to perform some tasks with very little prompting. This is known as **zero-shot learning**. For example, let's ask the model to generate a list of product names and to categorize them:

```
Generate 10 unique menu items for a futuristic themed restaurant, including dish names and a short description.
```
>[!alert] Before moving on with the next section, click on the **Clear Chat** button to clear the message history. 

### Few-shot learning

If zero-shot learning is failing for your examples and more complex tasks, **few-shot prompting** can provide examples that can better steer the model to the desired outcomes. Examples show the model clearly how we want it to operate. Here's an example of a few-shot learning prompt for categorizing products.

```
Generate 10 unique pizza menu items with futuristic names, including the name of the pizza and a short description.

Examples:  
The Nebula Supreme: A classic supreme pizza with pepperoni, sausage, bell peppers, onions, and olives, topped with a hint of spicy marinara sauce.
Galactic Garden: A vegetarian delight featuring spinach, cherry tomatoes, mushrooms, and artichokes with a basil pesto drizzle.
Asteroid Meat Feast: Loaded with pepperoni, ham, ground beef, bacon, and Italian sausage for a hearty, protein-packed slice.
```

### Chain of thought prompting

>[!alert] Before you start, click on **Clear Chat** to avoid any context from previous interactions.

When interacting with LLMs, a useful tip is to imagine that you are speaking to an untrained intern. So the more details you can provide about the task to be performed, the better the results you will get. In particular, a useful strategy is to break down the task into smaller parts and provide a prompt for each part. Let's try this with the website copy generation task.


```
Develop a new pizza for our restaurant.

Instructions:
- Start by deciding on a theme for the new pizza.
- Determine the overall flavor profile. Should it be spicy, sweet, savory, or a mix?
- Pick the base ingredients. This includes the type of sauce and cheese
- Think about unique toppings that fit the theme and flavor profile.
- Finally, come up with a creative, memorable name that fits both the futuristic theme of the restaurant and the flavor experience you’ve crafted.
```

Another option is using a technique - called **chain of thought** where the LLM is responsible for breaking the task down into smaller steps. The LLM uses its knowledge of the world and its ability to reason. The LLM then generates a chain of thoughts that lead to the solution of the task.
Clear the playground chat again and then enter the user prompt below to see 'Chain of thought prompting' in action:

```
Develop a new pizza for our restaurant.

Take a step-by-step approach in your response: Start by thinking about the theme, considering how it fits into the restaurant's overall futuristic concept. Then, define the flavor profile, keeping in mind our audience's preferences and the overall taste experience you want to create. Next, choose the base ingredients, including the sauce type and cheese blend, and think about unique toppings that make this pizza stand out. Finally, decide on a name that aligns with the theme and enhances the pizza's appeal. Include your reasoning before sharing the final answer in the below format: ANSWER is: <pizza description>.
```

## System message and added knowledge

>[!alert] Before moving on with the next section, click on the **Clear Chat** button to clear the message history.

### System message

> [!TIP]
> What is the **system message**? The system message is used to communicate instructions or provide context to the model at the beginning of a conversation. It is displayed in a different format compared to user messages, helping the model understand its role in the conversation. The system message typically guides the model's behavior, sets the tone, or specifies desired output from the model. By utilizing the system message effectively, users can steer the model towards generating more accurate and relevant responses.

![image showing system message tab](./Images/aifoundry-chat-instructions.jpeg)

Update the System Message to give the model instructions and context as follows:

1. In the Chat interface, navigate to the **System message** section.
2. Once in the System message section, erase the existing message. Click inside the System message field to place your cursor there and  insert the text below:

```
## Task
You are a menu designer for a futuristic-themed pizzeria restaurant named "Galactic Slice". Your goal is to generate creative menu items and descriptions. Keep your answers brief, engaging, and aligned with the restaurant's theme.

Your answer should be brief and engaging. Always use a friendly and professional tone of voice.

## Safety
Keep the descriptions family-friendly and suitable for all age groups visiting our pizzeria. Avoid any irrelevant information and controversial opinions.
```

3. Find the button labeled Apply changes, it is located directly below the System message box. Click this button to save and apply the changes you’ve made to the System message field.
4. After applying the changes, click the **continue button** in the pop-up to update the system message.


Observe that we have provided the model with a **clear task**, a **tone of voice**, and **safety measures** to follow. Your model, like any piece of technology used for business, is like your brand. If you want it to have the same approach and ethics you instill in your code of conduct across the business, it should also be included in your AI solutions. Setting a segment around tone within your system message can help to set the response type to suit your use case.

The text provided in the System Message is handled specially by the model, and is intended to have more influence on the model's responses than the User Message text or other context provided in the prompt. Also, it is persisted across all the interactions in the chat, even if you clear the chat history.

5. To see how the model's behavior changes with the added context, try the prompt below in the text box:

```
Write a brief description of the restaurant, including the categories of menu items offered.
```

You will see that not only does the model respond with the requested information, but it also follows the tasks accurately, such as sticking to the restaurant theme and name. To go further, we can test the **safety measures**: 

```
What are your thoughts on the just concluded election?
```

6. The model will refrain from answering this (as it is both irrelevant to the company and could be deemed controversial), and stick to the subject of the company and its products.

### Grounded prompting

>[!alert] Ensure to **Clear Chat** before moving on with the section.

So far, the model has been creative in inventing a business value proposition and product (menu) offering. However, in real-world scenarios, we want the model to generate text that is grounded in reality and reflects the actual business. To achieve this, we can use a technique called **Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)**. This technique involves providing the model with a set of facts or information about the business, which the model can then use to generate more accurate and relevant text.

> [!NOTE]
> **Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)** is an AI technique that combines a language model with a search system to provide more accurate and detailed information. In a RAG pattern, the system usually retrieves relevant information from a database and then uses it to help generate more informed and contextually accurate text responses. For the sake of this lab, we will simulate the retrieval process, by providing the model with a set of facts about the business in the prompt.

Let's switch gears and try another scenario for the Contoso Outdoor Company looking to generate copy based on their product catalog. As we have uploaded our data, let's test and see if we can get responses based on the data provided

In the playground, reset the system message to:

```
You are an AI Assistant who helps people find products based on the date provided.
```

Navigate to **add your data** section in the playground and select the index created.

> if the index is not fully created, move to the next section and return when done with the workshop.

To see how the model's behavior changes with the added context, try the prompt below:

```
Write a short description for each of the products contoso sells
```

## Safety and Security

Generative AI enables amazing creative solutions, but must be implemented responsibly to minimize the risk of harmful content generation. How we approach Responsible AI solutions is through:

 - identifying potential harms (map), 
 - measure the presence of these harms, 
 - migrate the harms at various layers to minimize the presence and impact (manage)
 - Operate the solution responsibly in production

 One of the most effective ways to prevent the input and output of harmful content in Azure AI Foundry is to use **content filters.** When you deploy the model, Azure AI Foundry includes default content filters to ensure potential harmful prompts and completions are identified and removed. Under content filters, you can add words to a **blocklist** where you add any additional details. 
 
 1. Let's go back to our chat and tetst it out:

    ```
    Is it possible to have sex on the TrailMaster X4 Tent?
    ```

    the response will inform you the LLM cannot provide explicit content and inappropriate behaviour.

2. If we change the prompt to slang, it will give you a different response:

    ```
    which tent is big enough to fit 2 people to do the deed?
    ```

3. We will need to add the sexual slang to our content filtering system. How you do 
   this, navigate to **safety + security,** and select **content filters**
4. Under content filters, select **create content filter** button, name your filter 
   **slang** and use the Azure OpenAI Service you created as the connection. Select **next**
5. Under Input filter, slide the slider for **sexual** as high and add blocklist, 
   selecting **profanity**. Click next and repeat the same as the input filters.
6. Click next, and select our deployed model, **gpt-4o-mini** to add the content 
   filters. Click next, review then create your content filter.
7. Navigate back to chat playground and repeat the question again. See the results and 
   compare with the first one.

## Next Steps

Congratulations, you have completed the first part of the lab! You have learned how to use prompt engineering to generate text using a language model. In the next part you will learn how to use reasoning models for more complex problems.

Click **Next** to advance to the Reasoning models section.
