README.md, before:

# Project

> This repo has been populated by an initial template to help get you started. Please
> make sure to update the content to build a great experience for community-building.

As the maintainer of this project, please make a few updates:

- Improving this README.MD file to provide a great experience
- Updating SUPPORT.MD with content about this project's support experience
- Understanding the security reporting process in SECURITY.MD
- Remove this section from the README

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## Trademarks

This project may contain trademarks or logos for projects, products, or services. Authorized use of Microsoft 
trademarks or logos is subject to and must follow 
[Microsoft's Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.
Any use of third-party trademarks or logos are subject to those third-party's policies.

Commit message:

Adding workshop description in README.md
Adding workshop description

README.md, after:

# Workshop - Interacting with Multimodal Models and Agents in Azure AI Foundry

This repository hosts the Microsoft Build 2025 lab content for *Interacting with Multimodal Models and Agents in Azure AI Foundry*

## Session Description

In this hands-on lab designed for developers who are getting started in their generative AI journey, attendees will get hands-on experience with Azure AI Foundry by interacting with the latest multimodal models from the model catalog. They’ll learn core concepts and prompt engineering techniques to effectively generate text, sound, and images, mitigating the risks of inaccurate or harmful responses. They’ll also create an LLM-powered agent prototype through UI, to combine generative AI capabilities with data connectors and powerful tools, enabling the agent to take actions on behalf of the user. 

### Duration
75 Minutes

## Learning Outcomes
* Understand how Large Language Models work
* Explore Prompt Engineering techniques and Retrieval Augmented Generation pattern
* Learn how to mitigate risks of harmful content in input/output to your model
* Interact with multimodal models through different interfaces​
* Get started with building an Azure AI Agent

## Technology Used
* Azure AI Foundry portal
