lab/Workshop Instructions/01_Set_up.md, before:

# Get started

> [!TIP]
> What is **Azure Azure AI Foundry**? Azure AI Foundry is the ultimate platform for innovators to create the future. It offers a comprehensive suite of Azure AI capabilities and tools to design, customize, and manage AI applications and agents. It's seamlessly integrated with the world's most loved developer tools, including GitHub, Visual Studio, and Copilot Studio. Azure AI Foundry empowers developers and IT admins to bring their AI visions to life with ease and efficiency.

## Prerequisites

To complete the lab, you will need:

- An Azure subscription - [Create one for free.](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/cognitive-services?WT.mc_id=aiml-132569-bethanycheum)
- An Azure OpenAI resource with [GPT-4o and DALL.E 3 models available in a supported region.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/concepts/models#assistants-preview?WT.mc_id=aiml-132569-bethanycheum)

## Deploying your resources

In this workshop we will be working with Azure AI Foundry. First, deploy the necessary resources by following the steps below:

1. Click the deploy to Azure button to deploy your resources: [![Deploy to Azure](https://aka.ms/deploytoazurebutton)](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmicrosoft%2Faitour-interact-with-llms%2Fmain%2Flab%2FWorkshop%20Instructions%2Fassets%2FAITour24_WKR540_Template.json)

2. In the newly opened tab, sign in to your Azure account.

3. Once signed in, you will be redirected to create resources based on the custom template. Create a new resource group and name it **interact-with-llms**. 

4. Next in the **Unique Suffix** field, add any unique four letters. Once done, click **Review and Create** button to create your resources

> [!NOTE]
> Deployment of the resources will take ~2-3 minutes to complete.

5. In this workshop, we will be working in Azure AI Foundry, focusing particularly on the playground feature. Once your deployment is complete, in your browser, navigate to Azure AI Foundry by visiting the link [https://ai.azure.com](https://ai.azure.com?WT.mc_id=aiml-132569-bethanycheum)


## Navigating Azure AI Foundry

![Azure AI Foundry logged in homepage](./Images/ai-Foundry-login-homepage.png)

1. To begin, navigate to the left-hand sidebar where you will find the **Management** section. Under this section, select **All Resources.** This action will lead you to a centralized area where all available resources and tools are displayed, giving you an overview of your current hub connections.

> [!NOTE]
> In case you can't find the **all Resources** section, click on the **all hubs** section.

2. Locate the **Workshop AI Hub** in the list of available hubs. **Click on the project** with the hub to access its settings and resources.

![Hub management tab](./Images/aifoundry-hub-navigation.jpeg)

## Project

![project overview tab](./Images/aifoundry-project-overview.jpeg)

### Project Overview

On this page, we can see an overview of our Azure AI Foundry portal Project. This includes:
- **Project Name and Description**: The name of the project and a short description of the Azure AI Foundry portal Project we are in.
- **Project details**: A collection of various properties such as the Project's connection string, its location, resource group, etc. 
- **Endpoints and keys**: Azure AI Foundry portal allows for multiple resources to be connected to it, expanding its features and functionality. Resources such as Azure OpenAI, Azure AI Search and Azure AI Services further enhance the capabilities of our Project, granting us access to deployments such as LLMs or functionalities such as vector search.  Here we can find useful information such as *API endpoints and keys* and documentation.
- **Recent resources and tutorials**: Under this, your recent resources is highlighted with additional learning resources and tutorials to help you get started.

### Navigation Bar

You will notice the navigation bar has updated with new tabs, which represent functionalities tied to our project.

![project navigation bar](./Images/aifoundry-project-navigation.jpeg)

We have two new sections:
1.  The first section includes _Playgrounds_ to interact with the models, _Overview_ which provides a general overview of your project, _Model Catalog_ which showcases the available models inside Azure AI Foundry, and _AI Services_ where you can see a list of Azure AI Services available along with demos, use cases and more.
1. **Build and Customize**: This includes useful opportunities to expand your project's reach, such as _working in Code_ by running a cloud compute, access to [_Prompt Flow_](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-studio/how-to/prompt-flow), and the ability to carry _Fine Tuning_ on your deployments.
1. **Assess and Improve:** this includes development of _Evaluations_ for your models, _tracing_ to debug your flows and _content filters_ to add guardrails to prompt inputs and completion outputs.
1. **My assets**: Here you can add additional elements to the project, with resources such as _Data_, _Indexes_, _models and endpoints_ and _Web apps_ to be used as part of your work.
1. **Management Center:** a location to manage all you  hub and project details and resources.

For this lab we will focus on using the **Playgrounds**, navigate to the Playgrounds and move on to the next section.

## Playgrounds

You will notice we have different options for our **Playground**. Each option represents a different approach to interacting and using AI models, which can be tailored to our specific needs.

We will be doing most of our work in these Playgrounds, but namely in the following:

1. **Chat Playground**
1. **Images Playground**
1. **Real-time audio playground**
1. **Agents playground**

![Image of Azure AI Foundry Playgrounds](./Images/aifoundry-playgrounds.jpeg)

### Chat Playground

Within the playground section, navigate to the **Chat playground** and select **Try the Chat Playground.** This feature allows you to engage with and test various AI models in a conversational format.

![Image of Azure AI Foundry Playground Chat Mode](./Images/aifoundry-chat-playground.jpeg)

1. **Deployment**: This section allows us to change between our deployed models.
1. **System Message Box**: Here is where we enter instructions for the model, previous to the user interaction.
1. **Add your data**: Azure AI Foundry portal supports providing the deployed models with external data, allowing for better search and context.
1. **Parameters**: This tab contains the models detailed settings, such as temperature.
1. **Chat Box**: The chat box is where we will see our interactions with the model in the form of chat messages.
1. **Prompt Box**: This is where we type the prompts we want to send to the model.

### Images Playground

Navigate back to Playgrounds, select the **Image playground** and click **Try the Image Playground.** This option allows you to work with image generation

![Image of Azure AI Foundry Playground Images Mode](./Images/aifoundry-image-playground.jpeg)

1. **Deployments**: In this drop-down we are able to choose the model to prompt for image generation. These models, just like the chat ones, come from our deployments.
1. **Prompt Box**: Similar to the chat playground's box, this is where the models get their input from the user. In the case of images, descriptions of what we want to generate.
1. **Results Box**: Finally, here is where the generated images are displayed.

### Real-time audio playground

Navigate back to Playgrounds, then select the **Real-time audio playground** and click **Try the Real-time audio Playground.** This feature allows you to engage with and test various AI models in an audio conversational format.

![Image of Azure AI Foundry Playground Real time audio mode](./Images/aifoundry-real-time-audio.jpeg)

1. **Deployment**: This section allows us to change between our deployed models.
1. **Server turn detection**: Determines if the server should utilize voice activity detection (VAD) to identify when a user has finished speaking.
1. **System Message Box**: Here is where we enter instructions for the model, previous to the user interaction.
1. **Choose a voice**: gpt-4o-realtime offers a variety of voices to choose from with unique accents or tonal capabilities tailored to your liking.
1. **Server turn detection**: additional parameters to help optimize the model's efficiency and performance by improving voice activity detection.
1. **Parameters**: This tab contains the models detailed settings, such as temperature and max response.
1. **Prompt Button**: Similar to the chat playground's box, this is where the models get their input from the user. 

## Agents playground

In the Navigation bar, select **Agents**. This feature provides you with the tools to build, test, and customize AI-driven agents.

![Image of Azure AI Foundry Playground Agents Mode](./Images/agents-playground-pt1.jpeg)

Once you _create your first Agent_ you will see the UI components as follows:
1. **Agent id and name:** Here you can give your Agent a name.
1. **Deployment**: In this drop-down we are able to choose the model to prompt for image generation. These models, just like the chat ones, come from our deployments.
1. **Instructions Box:** Here is where we enter instructions for the model, previous to the user interaction.

![](Images/agents-playground-pt2.jpeg)

4. **Knowledge:** Knowledge gives the agent access to data sources for grounding responses.
1. **Actions:** Enhance the agent's capabilities by allowing it to run various tools at runtime.
1. **Model settings**: This tab contains the models detailed settings, such as temperature and Top P.
1. **Prompt Box:** Similar to the chat playground's box, this is where the models get their input from the user. 

## Ready to start

That covers the necessary setup and basics of Azure AI Foundry. We will now move forward to begin interacting with the models.

Return to the  **Chat** under **project plaground** and click Next in the instructions to proceed to Part 1: Text Generation

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Go back to the **Chat Playground** and move to [Part 1: Text Generation](./02_Text_Generation.md)

Commit message:

Updating references to data to external repos; updating self-guided learning experience instructions and template

lab/Workshop Instructions/01_Set_up.md, after:

# Get started

> [!TIP]
> What is **Azure Azure AI Foundry**? Azure AI Foundry is the ultimate platform for innovators to create generative AI solution. It offers a comprehensive suite of Azure AI capabilities and tools to design, customize, and manage AI applications and agents. It's seamlessly integrated with the world's most loved developer tools, including GitHub, Visual Studio, and Copilot Studio. Azure AI Foundry empowers developers and IT admins to bring their AI visions to life with ease and efficiency.

## Prerequisites

To complete the lab, you will need:

- An Azure subscription - [Create one for free.](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/cognitive-services?WT.mc_id=aiml-132569-bethanycheum)
- An Azure OpenAI resource with [GPT-4o-mini, GPT-4o-mini-realtime-preview, DALL-E 3 and o4-mini models available in a supported region.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/concepts/models#assistants-preview?WT.mc_id=aiml-132569-bethanycheum)

## Deploying your resources

In this workshop we will be working with Azure AI Foundry. First, deploy the necessary resources by following the steps below:

1. Click the deploy to Azure button to deploy your resources: [![Deploy to Azure](https://aka.ms/deploytoazurebutton)](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmicrosoft%2Faitour-interact-with-llms%2Fmain%2Flab%2FWorkshop%20Instructions%2Fassets%2Flab324-template.json)

2. In the newly opened tab, sign in to your Azure account.

3. Once signed in, you will be redirected to create resources based on the custom template. Create a new resource group and name it **interact-with-llms**. 

4. Next in the **Unique Suffix** field, add any unique four letters. Once done, click **Review and Create** button to create your resources

> [!NOTE]
> Deployment of the resources will take ~2-3 minutes to complete.

5. In this workshop, we will be working in Azure AI Foundry, focusing particularly on the playground feature. Once your deployment is complete, in your browser, navigate to Azure AI Foundry by visiting the link [https://ai.azure.com](https://ai.azure.com?WT.mc_id=aiml-132569-bethanycheum)


## Navigating Azure AI Foundry

![Azure AI Foundry logged in homepage](./Images/ai-Foundry-login-homepage.png)

1. To begin, navigate to the left-hand sidebar where you will find the **Management** section. Under this section, select **All Resources.** This action will lead you to a centralized area where all available resources and tools are displayed, giving you an overview of your current hub connections.

> [!NOTE]
> In case you can't find the **all Resources** section, click on the **all hubs** section.

2. Locate the **Workshop AI Hub** in the list of available hubs. **Click on the project** with the hub to access its settings and resources.

![Hub management tab](./Images/aifoundry-hub-navigation.jpeg)

> [!NOTE]
 > If you used the [workshop template](./assets/lab324-template.json) to provision the resources, an AI project with its related assets has been already created for you, so you can focus on usage. Here's a list of resources that have been pre-provisioned in the workshop environment:
 > - Azure AI Hub, which is your workspace in Azure AI Foundry and a container of projects. it comes with an Azure Key Vault and an Azure Sotrage 
 > Accountattached to store secrets and data.
 > - Azure AI Project, which encapsulates the tools and assets used to create a specific AI solution
 > - Azure AI Services, which provides access to generative AI models 
 > - Azure AI Search, which enables advanced search capabilities

## Project

![project overview tab](./Images/aifoundry-project-overview.jpeg)

### Project Overview

On this page, we can see an overview of our Azure AI Foundry portal Project. This includes:
- **Project Name and Description**: The name of the project and a short description of the Azure AI Foundry portal Project we are in.
- **Project details**: A collection of various properties such as the Project's connection string, its location, resource group, etc. 
- **Endpoints and keys**: Azure AI Foundry portal allows for multiple resources to be connected to it, expanding its features and functionality. Resources such as Azure OpenAI, Azure AI Search and Azure AI Services further enhance the capabilities of our Project, granting us access to deployments such as LLMs or functionalities such as vector search.  Here we can find useful information such as *API endpoints and keys* and documentation.
- **Recent resources and tutorials**: Under this, your recent resources is highlighted with additional learning resources and tutorials to help you get started.

### Navigation Bar

You will notice the navigation bar has updated with new tabs, which represent functionalities tied to our project.

![project navigation bar](./Images/aifoundry-project-navigation.jpeg)

We have two new sections:
1.  The first section includes _Playgrounds_ to interact with the models, _Overview_ which provides a general overview of your project, _Model Catalog_ which showcases the available models inside Azure AI Foundry, and _AI Services_ where you can see a list of Azure AI Services available along with demos, use cases and more.
1. **Build and Customize**: This includes useful opportunities to expand your project's reach, such as _working in Code_ by running a cloud compute, access to [_Prompt Flow_](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-studio/how-to/prompt-flow), and the ability to carry _Fine Tuning_ on your deployments.
1. **Assess and Improve:** this includes development of _Evaluations_ for your models, _tracing_ to debug your flows and _content filters_ to add guardrails to prompt inputs and completion outputs.
1. **My assets**: Here you can add additional elements to the project, with resources such as _Data_, _Indexes_, _models and endpoints_ and _Web apps_ to be used as part of your work.
1. **Management Center:** a location to manage all you  hub and project details and resources.

## Data and indexes
 
 In this lab we are going to provide models access to a set of private data, to test its capabilities to ground responses on it. In this step, let's add this data in our Azure AI project. 

Download the data on your machine from [this folder](https://github.com/microsoft/aitour-concept-to-creation-ai-studio/tree/main/src/data/products). For the sake of this lab, you don't need to download the whole list of files, pick the first 5 and save them into a folder named **product_catalog** on your Desktop.
 
 1. Navigate to **Data + Indexes**
 2. Select, **New data,** and select **Upload files/folders** as **Data source**
 3. Open the **Upload files or folder** dropdown, select **Upload folder** and upload the files hosted in the **product_catalog** folder you just created.
 4. Once data is uploaded, name your data as **contoso-products** and finish.
 5. Next, in the same tab, navigate to index and create an index for your data.
    - Move to the **Indexes** tab in the Data + Indexes page.
    - Click on the **+ New index** button.
    - Change the default name of your index to **products-catalog**.
    - Select **Data in Azure AI Foundry** as the data source and then the data source you just uploaded.
    - In the **Index Settings** section, select the Azure AI Search connection that has been pre-provisioned for this project.
    - In the **Search Settings** section, make sure that vectorization is enabled and select the default Azure OpenAI resource for your hub as embedding model.
 
 Move to the next section as your data is being uploaded.

## Playgrounds

You will notice we have different options for our **Playground**. Each option represents a different approach to interacting and using AI models, which can be tailored to our specific needs.

We will be doing most of our work in these Playgrounds, but namely in the following:

1. **Chat Playground**
1. **Images Playground**
1. **Real-time audio playground**
1. **Agents playground**

![Image of Azure AI Foundry Playgrounds](./Images/aifoundry-playgrounds.jpeg)

### Chat Playground

Within the playground section, navigate to the **Chat playground** and select **Try the Chat Playground.** This feature allows you to engage with and test various AI models in a conversational format.

![Image of Azure AI Foundry Playground Chat Mode](./Images/aifoundry-chat-playground.jpeg)

1. **Deployment**: This section allows us to change between our deployed models.
1. **System Message Box**: Here is where we enter instructions for the model, previous to the user interaction.
1. **Add your data**: Azure AI Foundry portal supports providing the deployed models with external data, allowing for better search and context.
1. **Parameters**: This tab contains the models detailed settings, such as temperature.
1. **Chat Box**: The chat box is where we will see our interactions with the model in the form of chat messages.
1. **Prompt Box**: This is where we type the prompts we want to send to the model.

### Images Playground

Navigate back to Playgrounds, select the **Image playground** and click **Try the Image Playground.** This option allows you to work with image generation

![Image of Azure AI Foundry Playground Images Mode](./Images/aifoundry-image-playground.jpeg)

1. **Deployments**: In this drop-down we are able to choose the model to prompt for image generation. These models, just like the chat ones, come from our deployments.
1. **Prompt Box**: Similar to the chat playground's box, this is where the models get their input from the user. In the case of images, descriptions of what we want to generate.
1. **Results Box**: Finally, here is where the generated images are displayed.

### Real-time audio playground

Navigate back to Playgrounds, then select the **Real-time audio playground** and click **Try the Real-time audio Playground.** This feature allows you to engage with and test various AI models in an audio conversational format.

![Image of Azure AI Foundry Playground Real time audio mode](./Images/aifoundry-real-time-audio.jpeg)

1. **Deployment**: This section allows us to change between our deployed models.
1. **Server turn detection**: Determines if the server should utilize voice activity detection (VAD) to identify when a user has finished speaking.
1. **System Message Box**: Here is where we enter instructions for the model, previous to the user interaction.
1. **Choose a voice**: gpt-4o-realtime offers a variety of voices to choose from with unique accents or tonal capabilities tailored to your liking.
1. **Server turn detection**: additional parameters to help optimize the model's efficiency and performance by improving voice activity detection.
1. **Parameters**: This tab contains the models detailed settings, such as temperature and max response.
1. **Prompt Button**: Similar to the chat playground's box, this is where the models get their input from the user. 

## Agents playground

In the Navigation bar, select **Agents**. This feature provides you with the tools to build, test, and customize AI-driven agents.

![Image of Azure AI Foundry Playground Agents Mode](./Images/agents-playground-pt1.jpeg)

Once you _create your first Agent_ you will see the UI components as follows:
1. **Agent id and name:** Here you can give your Agent a name.
1. **Deployment**: In this drop-down we are able to choose the model to prompt for image generation. These models, just like the chat ones, come from our deployments.
1. **Instructions Box:** Here is where we enter instructions for the model, previous to the user interaction.

![](Images/agents-playground-pt2.jpeg)

4. **Knowledge:** Knowledge gives the agent access to data sources for grounding responses.
1. **Actions:** Enhance the agent's capabilities by allowing it to run various tools at runtime.
1. **Model settings**: This tab contains the models detailed settings, such as temperature and Top P.
1. **Prompt Box:** Similar to the chat playground's box, this is where the models get their input from the user. 

## Ready to start

That covers the necessary setup and basics of Azure AI Foundry. We will now move forward to begin interacting with the models.

Return to the  **Chat** under **project plaground** and click Next in the instructions to proceed to Part 1: Text Generation

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Go back to the **Chat Playground** and move to [Part 1: Text Generation](./02_Text_Generation.md)
